docs/_manual_docs/general/web_general.md, before:

# Web Usage

```{image} https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dmedina559/bedrock-server-manager/main/src/bedrock_server_manager/web/static/image/icon/favicon.svg
:alt: Bedrock Server Manager Icon
:width: 200px
:align: center
```

Bedrock Server Manager 3.1.0 includes a Web server you can run to easily manage your bedrock servers in your web browser, and is also mobile friendly!

The web ui has full parity with the CLI. With the web server you can:

- Install New Server
- Configure various server config files such as allowlist and permissions
- Start/Stop/Restart Bedrock server
- Update/Delete Bedrock server
- Monitor resource usage
- Schedule cron/task
- Install world/addons
- Backup and Restore all or individual files/worlds

## Configure the Web Server:

### Environment Variables:

To get started using the web server you must first set these environment variables:

- **BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_USERNAME**: Required. Plain text username for web UI and API login. **The web server will not start if this is not set**

- **BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_PASSWORD**: Required. Hashed password for web UI and API login. Use the generate-password utility. **The web server will not start if this is not set**

- **BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_SECRET**:   Recommended. A long, random, secret string. If not set, a temporary key is generated, and web UI sessions will not persist across restarts, and will require reauthentication.

- **BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_TOKEN**:    Recommended. A long, random, secret string (different from _SECRET). If not set, a temporary key is generated, and JWT tokens used for API authentication will become invalid across restarts. **JWT tokens expire every 4 weeks by default**

Follow your platform's documentation for setting Environment Variables

### Generate Password Hash:

For the web server to start you must first set the BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_PASSWORD environment variable

This must be set to the password hash and NOT the plain text password

Use the following command to generate a password:

```bash
bedrock-server-manager generate-password
```
Follow the on-screen prompt to hash your password

### Hosts:

By Default Bedrock Server Manager will only listen to local host only interfaces `127.0.0.1` and `[::1]`

To change which host to listen to start the web server with the specified host

Example: specify local host only ipv4 and ipv6:

```bash
bedrock-server-manager web start --host 127.0.0.1 --host "::1"
```

Example: specify all ipv4 and ipv6 addresses:

```bash
bedrock-server-manager web start --host 0.0.0.0 --host "::"
```

### Port:

By default Bedrock Server Manager will use port `11325`. This can be change in script_config.json

### HTTP API:

An HTTP API is provided allowing tools like `curl` or `Invoke-RestMethod` to interact with server.

Before using the API, ensure the following environment variables are set on the system running the app:

- `BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_TOKEN`: **REQUIRED** for token persistence across server restarts
- `BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_USERNAME`: The username for API login.
- `BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_PASSWORD`: The hashed password for API login

#### Obtaining a JWT token:

The API endpoints require authentication using a JSON Web Token (JWT).
How: Obtain a token by sending a POST request to the `/api/login` endpoint.
Request Body: Include a JSON payload with username and password keys, matching the values set in the environment variables.

```
{
    "username": "username",
    "password": "password"
}
```

Response: On success, the API returns a JSON object containing the access_token:
```
{
    "access_token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9..."
}
```

Tokens expiration is configurable via `script_config.json` (default: 4 weeks).

##### `curl` Example (Bash):

```bash
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{"username": "your_username", "password": "your_password"}' \
     http://<your-manager-host>:<port>/api/login
```

##### PowerShell Example:

```powershell
$body = @{ username = 'your_username'; password = 'your_password' } | ConvertTo-Json
Invoke-RestMethod -Method Post -Uri "http://<your-manager-host>:<port>/api/login" -Body $body -ContentType 'application/json'
```

#### Using the API

Endpoints requiring authentication will need the obtained access_token included  in the Authorization header of your requests:

```
"Authorization: Bearer YOUR_JWT_TOKEN"
```

For requests sending data (like POST or PUT), set the Content-Type header to `application/json`.

#### Examples:

- Start server:

##### `curl` Example (Bash):
```bash
curl -X POST -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_JWT_TOKEN" \
     http://<your-manager-host>:<port>/api/server/<server_name>/stop
```

##### PowerShell Example:
```powershell
$headers = @{ Authorization = 'Bearer YOUR_JWT_TOKEN' }
Invoke-RestMethod -Method Post -Uri "http://<your-manager-host>:<port>/api/server/<server_name>/stop" -Headers $headers
```

- Send Command:

##### `curl` Example (Bash):
```bash
curl -X POST -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_JWT_TOKEN" -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{"command": "say Hello from API!"}' \
     http://<your-manager-host>:<port>/api/server/<server_name>/send_command
```

##### PowerShell Example:
```powershell
$headers = @{ Authorization = 'Bearer YOUR_JWT_TOKEN'; 'Content-Type' = 'application/json' }
$body = @{ command = 'say Hello from API!' } | ConvertTo-Json
Invoke-RestMethod -Method Post -Uri "http://<your-manager-host>:<port>/api/server/<server_name>/send_command" -Headers $headers -Body $body
```

Commit message:

docs: revamped some outdated general docs

docs/_manual_docs/general/web_general.md, after:

# Web Usage

```{image} https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dmedina559/bedrock-server-manager/main/src/bedrock_server_manager/web/static/image/icon/favicon.svg
:alt: Bedrock Server Manager Icon
:width: 200px
:align: center
```

```{image} https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dmedina559/bedrock-server-manager/main/docs/images/main_index.png
:alt: Web Interface
:width: 400px
:align: center
```

Bedrock Server Manager 3.1.0 includes a Web server you can run to easily manage your bedrock servers in your web browser, and is also mobile friendly!

The web ui has full parity with the CLI. With the web server you can:

- Install New Server
- Configure various server config files such as allowlist and permissions
- Start/Stop/Restart Bedrock server
- Update/Delete Bedrock server
- Monitor resource usage
- Schedule cron/task
- Install world/addons
- Backup and Restore all or individual files/worlds

## Configure the Web Server:

### Environment Variables:

To get started using the web server you must first set these environment variables:

- **BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_USERNAME**: Required. Plain text username for web UI and API login. **The web server will not start if this is not set**

- **BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_PASSWORD**: Required. Hashed password for web UI and API login. Use the generate-password utility. **The web server will not start if this is not set**

- **BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_SECRET**:   Recommended. A long, random, secret string. If not set, a temporary key is generated, and web UI sessions will not persist across restarts, and will require reauthentication.

- **BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_TOKEN**:    Recommended. A long, random, secret string (different from _SECRET). If not set, a temporary key is generated, and JWT tokens used for API authentication will become invalid across restarts. **JWT tokens expire every 4 weeks by default**

Follow your platform's documentation for setting Environment Variables

### Generate Password Hash:

For the web server to start you must first set the BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_PASSWORD environment variable

This must be set to the password hash and NOT the plain text password

Use the following command to generate a password:

```bash
bedrock-server-manager generate-password
```
Follow the on-screen prompt to hash your password

### Hosts:

```{note} 
As of BSM 3.5.0, the web server will only accept one host at a time, if multiple hosts are specified, the first one will be used.
```

By Default Bedrock Server Manager will only listen to local host only interfaces `127.0.0.1`

To change which host to listen to start the web server with the specified host

Example: specify local host only ipv4:

```bash
bedrock-server-manager web start --host 127.0.0.1
```

Example: specify all ipv4:

```bash
bedrock-server-manager web start --host 0.0.0.0
```

### Port:

By default Bedrock Server Manager will use port `11325`. This can be change in script_config.json

### HTTP API:

```{note}
As of BSM 3.5.0, the HTTP API docs are now integrated in the web server using FastAPIs Swagger UI. 
Visit: `http(s)://<bsm_host:port>/docs` after starting the web server.
```

An HTTP API is provided allowing tools like `curl` or `Invoke-RestMethod` to interact with server.

Before using the API, ensure the following environment variables are set on the system running the app:

- `BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_TOKEN`: **REQUIRED** for token persistence across server restarts
- `BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_USERNAME`: The username for API login.
- `BEDROCK_SERVER_MANAGER_PASSWORD`: The hashed password for API login

#### Obtaining a JWT token:

The API endpoints require authentication using a JSON Web Token (JWT).
How: Obtain a token by sending a POST request to the `/api/login` endpoint.
Request Body: Include a JSON payload with username and password keys, matching the values set in the environment variables.

```
{
    "username": "username",
    "password": "password"
}
```

Response: On success, the API returns a JSON object containing the access_token:
```
{
    "access_token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9..."
}
```

Tokens expiration is configurable via `script_config.json` (default: 4 weeks).

##### `curl` Example (Bash):

```bash
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{"username": "your_username", "password": "your_password"}' \
     http://<your-manager-host>:<port>/api/login
```

##### PowerShell Example:

```powershell
$body = @{ username = 'your_username'; password = 'your_password' } | ConvertTo-Json
Invoke-RestMethod -Method Post -Uri "http://<your-manager-host>:<port>/api/login" -Body $body -ContentType 'application/json'
```

#### Using the API

Endpoints requiring authentication will need the obtained access_token included  in the Authorization header of your requests:

```
"Authorization: Bearer YOUR_JWT_TOKEN"
```

For requests sending data (like POST or PUT), set the Content-Type header to `application/json`.

#### Examples:

- Start server:

##### `curl` Example (Bash):
```bash
curl -X POST -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_JWT_TOKEN" \
     http://<your-manager-host>:<port>/api/server/<server_name>/stop
```

##### PowerShell Example:
```powershell
$headers = @{ Authorization = 'Bearer YOUR_JWT_TOKEN' }
Invoke-RestMethod -Method Post -Uri "http://<your-manager-host>:<port>/api/server/<server_name>/stop" -Headers $headers
```

- Send Command:

##### `curl` Example (Bash):
```bash
curl -X POST -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_JWT_TOKEN" -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{"command": "say Hello from API!"}' \
     http://<your-manager-host>:<port>/api/server/<server_name>/send_command
```

##### PowerShell Example:
```powershell
$headers = @{ Authorization = 'Bearer YOUR_JWT_TOKEN'; 'Content-Type' = 'application/json' }
$body = @{ command = 'say Hello from API!' } | ConvertTo-Json
Invoke-RestMethod -Method Post -Uri "http://<your-manager-host>:<port>/api/server/<server_name>/send_command" -Headers $headers -Body $body
```
